*Released on <time datetime="2023-04-04">2023-04-04</time>*




### Features

#### Suggested Users

* `GET /users/suggested`

This new endpoint provides a simple jumping off point for finding users. It's not complex. Hopefully works for users with no followers and users with some followers.

#### User Presence in app streams and user streams

The `presence` scope can be requested by a user or app stream, showing instant updates to users' presences.

#### Files include lists of objects they are attached to

Now file objects include a list of the messages, polls, and posts that they have been attached to any, under `attached_to`. This helps determine what would be impacted if you deleted the file, and track down how you've used a file.

- https://docs.pnut.io/resources/files#file-fields

#### Exclude users from post search

When searching posts, you can provide a list of user IDs to the query field `exclude_user_ids` to exclude from the results. This could be useful if a particular user posts a lot about something and you want to see anyone else, or if you want to exclude yourself from a search.

- https://docs.pnut.io/resources/posts/search#get-posts-search

#### Chat room names in E-mail digests

E-mail digest notifications will now include chat room names, if the channel is a chat room-type.

Manage them from https://pnut.io/account/notifications#digest.


### Changes

#### Follower data in user export

Exporting your data now includes your followers and following users.


### Fixes

#### Stickying message without authentication returned nothing

Now stickying a message without authentication will return a proper error message.

#### User clients count missing on App Streams

When a User object came across an App Stream, it did not include `counts.clients`.

#### Bitrate field for Audio file raw

Audio files embedded in another object's `raw` data did not properly reference its bitrate.

#### Some calls not finding scopes when calling unauthenticated

Sometimes calling an endpoint that required authentication would fail and not explain itself.

#### V0 File Delete returns 404

Now it returns the deleted file info as expected.

#### V0 User Presence update response not consistent

It was returning unexpected objects.
