*Released on <time datetime="2023-10-21">2023-10-21</time>*




### Features

#### Per-Channel User Presence

* `GET /channels/{channel_id}/presence`
* `GET /users/{user_id}/presence/channels/{channel_id}`
* `PUT /users/me/presence/channels/{channel_id}`

A user's presence can be set for a specific channel, separately from its global User Presence. You can have per-channel statuses, or overload the functionality for an ephemeral chat.

* https://pnut.io/docs/resources/channels/presence


#### User Presence timeout configurable

* `PUT /users/me/presence`
* `PUT /users/me/presence/channels/{channel_id}`

You can now set the expiration for a User Presence or Channel User Presence, up to 7 days, by including a timestamp for field `expiration`.

* https://pnut.io/docs/resources/users/presence#put-users-me-presence


#### Delete multiple files at once

* `DELETE /files?ids=1,2,3`
* `GET /sys/ops/{uuid}`

The bulk file delete endpoint can delete up to 200 files at once. Because many files may be involved (and derivative files!), the endpoint will just return the File IDs it is deleting, and an endpoint you can poll for status of the job, in `meta.status_url`.

* https://pnut.io/docs/resources/files/lifecycle#delete-files



### Fixes

#### Revising Post not checking entities

A revised post must retain the same links, mentions, and tags as the original post. Revising a post was not properly guarding against them changing.

#### Post search by `raw_types` failing

500 error.

#### Data export file name referred to wrong username

The ZIP file would have a different username on it.

#### V0 System Stats endpoint failing

500 error.

#### V0 Client link entities wrong

On v0 API calls, clients would refer to `url` instead of `link` in some cases.
